skills/context-layer/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: context-layer
description: Manages context layer projects, tasks, and documentation via the ctx CLI. Use when the user mentions ctx commands, context layer projects or tasks, or requests you to write any form of documentation -- such as documenting implemented features, research findings, or drawing diagrams. Also use when the user asks to clone a repo as context layer context.
---

# Context Layer

## ctx CLI commands

The `ctx` CLI manages projects and tasks. Available commands:

- `ctx init` -- Initialize a project (clone from git, create from scratch, or use existing).
- `ctx new` -- Create a new task under the active project.
- `ctx active` -- Show the current active project and task.
- `ctx active project` -- Select a different active project.
- `ctx active task` -- Select a different active task.

Configuration lives at `.ctxlayer/config.yaml` in the current working directory with two fields:

```yaml
active-project: <project-name>
active-task: <task-name>
```

Projects are stored globally at `~/.ctxlayer/projects/`. Each project contains task folders, and each task folder has `docs/` and `context/` subdirectories.

## Docs folder convention

When the user asks to document something -- implemented features, research findings, search results, architecture decisions, diagrams, or any other form of documentation -- follow these steps:

1. Read `.ctxlayer/config.yaml` to get `active-project` and `active-task`. `.ctxlayer` folder is likely to be gitignored, so read it using command line.
2. Navigate to `~/.ctxlayer/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/docs/`.
3. Create a new markdown file using this naming convention:
   - **Prefix:** two-digit incrementing number based on existing files in the folder (`01`, `02`, `03`, ...).
   - **Separator:** a single dash.
   - **Name:** descriptive kebab-case summary of the content.
   - **Extension:** `.md`.
   - Examples: `01-initial-research.md`, `02-feature-implementation.md`, `03-architecture-diagram.md`.
4. Write the content the user requested, in the format they requested.

Each file is a standalone document covering one topic. The docs folder serves as a running report and journal for the task.

## Context folder convention

The context folder at `~/.ctxlayer/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/context/` holds reference material for the task: sample data, configuration snippets, external repositories, and anything else useful as a reference during implementation.

### Cloning repos as context layer context

When the user asks to "clone a repo as context" or to add a repository to the context layer context, do **NOT** run a regular `git clone`. Instead:

1. Navigate to the task's `context/` folder.
2. Run `git submodule add <repo-url>` to add the repository as a git submodule.
3. Run `git submodule update --init` to initialize and fetch it.

This keeps the context folder lightweight and version-controlled via submodule references rather than full repository copies.

Commit message:

Enhance `ctx` CLI documentation by adding new commands for task and project management, including `import`, `drop`, and `delete`. Update existing command descriptions for clarity and introduce guidelines for performing git operations within the context layer.

skills/context-layer/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: context-layer
description: Manages context layer projects, tasks, and documentation via the ctx CLI. Use when the user mentions ctx commands, context layer projects or tasks, or requests you to write any form of documentation -- such as documenting implemented features, research findings, or drawing diagrams. Also use when the user asks to clone a repo as context layer context.
---

# Context Layer

## ctx CLI commands

The `ctx` CLI manages projects and tasks. Available commands:

- `ctx` -- Show help and available commands
- `ctx init` -- Initialize a project (clone from git, create from scratch, or use existing)
- `ctx new [name]` -- Create a new task under the active project
- `ctx import` -- Import a task from any project as a local symlink
- `ctx git [args...]` -- Run git in the current task directory
- `ctx drop task [name]` -- Remove a task symlink (with optional task name)
- `ctx drop project` -- Remove a project directory from local `.ctxlayer/`
- `ctx delete task` -- Delete a task from the context store and remove its symlink
- `ctx delete project` -- Delete a project from the context store and remove its local directory
- `ctx active` -- Show the current active project and task
- `ctx active project` -- Select a different active project (arrow-key menu)
- `ctx active task` -- Select a different active task (arrow-key menu)

**Git operations on the context layer:** When the user requests any git operations (e.g., status, add, commit, push, pull) on the context layer or task context, perform them via `ctx git <args>` rather than running `git` directly.

Configuration lives at `.ctxlayer/config.yaml` in the current working directory with two fields:

```yaml
active-project: <project-name>
active-task: <task-name>
```

Projects are stored globally at `~/.ctxlayer/projects/`. Each project contains task folders, and each task folder has `docs/` and `context/` subdirectories.

## Docs folder convention

When the user asks to document something -- implemented features, research findings, search results, architecture decisions, diagrams, or any other form of documentation -- follow these steps:

1. Read `.ctxlayer/config.yaml` to get `active-project` and `active-task`. `.ctxlayer` folder is likely to be gitignored, so read it using command line.
2. Navigate to `~/.ctxlayer/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/docs/`.
3. Create a new markdown file using this naming convention:
   - **Prefix:** two-digit incrementing number based on existing files in the folder (`01`, `02`, `03`, ...).
   - **Separator:** a single dash.
   - **Name:** descriptive kebab-case summary of the content.
   - **Extension:** `.md`.
   - Examples: `01-initial-research.md`, `02-feature-implementation.md`, `03-architecture-diagram.md`.
4. Write the content the user requested, in the format they requested.

Each file is a standalone document covering one topic. The docs folder serves as a running report and journal for the task.

## Context folder convention

The context folder at `~/.ctxlayer/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/context/` holds reference material for the task: sample data, configuration snippets, external repositories, and anything else useful as a reference during implementation.

### Cloning repos as context layer context

When the user asks to "clone a repo as context" or to add a repository to the context layer context, do **NOT** run a regular `git clone`. Instead:

1. Navigate to the task's `context/` folder.
2. Run `git submodule add <repo-url>` to add the repository as a git submodule.
3. Run `git submodule update --init` to initialize and fetch it.

This keeps the context folder lightweight and version-controlled via submodule references rather than full repository copies.
