skills/intelligence/SKILL.md, before:

---
name: intelligence
description: Manages intelligence projects, tasks, and documentation via the intel CLI. Use when the user mentions intel commands, intelligence projects or tasks, or requests you to write any form of documentation -- such as documenting implemented features, research findings, or drawing diagrams. Also use when the user asks to clone a repo as intelligence context.
---

# Intelligence

## Intel CLI commands

The `intel` CLI manages projects and tasks. Available commands:

- `intel init` -- Initialize a project (clone from git, create from scratch, or use existing).
- `intel new` -- Create a new task under the active project.
- `intel active` -- Show the current active project and task.
- `intel active project` -- Select a different active project.
- `intel active task` -- Select a different active task.

Configuration lives at `.intelligence/config.yaml` in the current working directory with two fields:

```yaml
active-project: <project-name>
active-task: <task-name>
```

Projects are stored globally at `~/.intelligence/projects/`. Each project contains task folders, and each task folder has `docs/` and `context/` subdirectories.

## Docs folder convention

When the user asks to document something -- implemented features, research findings, search results, architecture decisions, diagrams, or any other form of documentation -- follow these steps:

1. Read `.intelligence/config.yaml` to get `active-project` and `active-task`.
2. Navigate to `~/.intelligence/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/docs/`.
3. Create a new markdown file using this naming convention:
   - **Prefix:** two-digit incrementing number based on existing files in the folder (`01`, `02`, `03`, ...).
   - **Separator:** a single dash.
   - **Name:** descriptive kebab-case summary of the content.
   - **Extension:** `.md`.
   - Examples: `01-initial-research.md`, `02-feature-implementation.md`, `03-architecture-diagram.md`.
4. Write the content the user requested, in the format they requested.

Each file is a standalone document covering one topic. The docs folder serves as a running report and journal for the task.

## Context folder convention

The context folder at `~/.intelligence/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/context/` holds reference material for the task: sample data, configuration snippets, external repositories, and anything else useful as a reference during implementation.

### Cloning repos as intelligence context

When the user asks to "clone a repo as intelligence" or to add a repository to the intelligence context, do **NOT** run a regular `git clone`. Instead:

1. Navigate to the task's `context/` folder.
2. Run `git submodule add <repo-url>` to add the repository as a git submodule.
3. Run `git submodule update --init` to initialize and fetch it.

This keeps the context folder lightweight and version-controlled via submodule references rather than full repository copies.

Commit message:

Clarify instructions for reading the active project and task from the config file, noting that the .intelligence folder is likely to be gitignored and should be accessed via command line.

skills/intelligence/SKILL.md, after:

---
name: intelligence
description: Manages intelligence projects, tasks, and documentation via the intel CLI. Use when the user mentions intel commands, intelligence projects or tasks, or requests you to write any form of documentation -- such as documenting implemented features, research findings, or drawing diagrams. Also use when the user asks to clone a repo as intelligence context.
---

# Intelligence

## Intel CLI commands

The `intel` CLI manages projects and tasks. Available commands:

- `intel init` -- Initialize a project (clone from git, create from scratch, or use existing).
- `intel new` -- Create a new task under the active project.
- `intel active` -- Show the current active project and task.
- `intel active project` -- Select a different active project.
- `intel active task` -- Select a different active task.

Configuration lives at `.intelligence/config.yaml` in the current working directory with two fields:

```yaml
active-project: <project-name>
active-task: <task-name>
```

Projects are stored globally at `~/.intelligence/projects/`. Each project contains task folders, and each task folder has `docs/` and `context/` subdirectories.

## Docs folder convention

When the user asks to document something -- implemented features, research findings, search results, architecture decisions, diagrams, or any other form of documentation -- follow these steps:

1. Read `.intelligence/config.yaml` to get `active-project` and `active-task`. `.intelligence` folder is likely to be gitignored, so read it using command line.
2. Navigate to `~/.intelligence/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/docs/`.
3. Create a new markdown file using this naming convention:
   - **Prefix:** two-digit incrementing number based on existing files in the folder (`01`, `02`, `03`, ...).
   - **Separator:** a single dash.
   - **Name:** descriptive kebab-case summary of the content.
   - **Extension:** `.md`.
   - Examples: `01-initial-research.md`, `02-feature-implementation.md`, `03-architecture-diagram.md`.
4. Write the content the user requested, in the format they requested.

Each file is a standalone document covering one topic. The docs folder serves as a running report and journal for the task.

## Context folder convention

The context folder at `~/.intelligence/projects/<active-project>/<active-task>/context/` holds reference material for the task: sample data, configuration snippets, external repositories, and anything else useful as a reference during implementation.

### Cloning repos as intelligence context

When the user asks to "clone a repo as intelligence" or to add a repository to the intelligence context, do **NOT** run a regular `git clone`. Instead:

1. Navigate to the task's `context/` folder.
2. Run `git submodule add <repo-url>` to add the repository as a git submodule.
3. Run `git submodule update --init` to initialize and fetch it.

This keeps the context folder lightweight and version-controlled via submodule references rather than full repository copies.
