website/docs/overview.md, before:

---
layout: docs
title: Overview
---

# Overview

Context Layer is a **context layer** used as **context for AI agents** during iterative development. It gives agents a structured place for documentation and reference material so they can focus and operate more precisely across iterations.

## What it does

- Manages a global store at `~/.agents/ctxlayer/projects/` where projects and tasks live
- Each task has `docs/` and `data/` for documentation and reference material
- A local `.ctxlayer/config.yaml` in your repo tracks the active project and task
- An agent skill teaches AI coding assistants (Cursor, Claude Code, etc.) how to write documentation and manage context using these conventions

## Intention

- **Project** — Context organization unit. A project can span one or more Git repositories.
- **Task** — One task within that project. Think of a task like a Git branch: create a new task whenever you start a feature, refactor, or research spike.
- Inside each task you get:
  - **`data/`** — All data the agent can use (reference material, repos, sample data)
  - **`docs/`** — Documentation. Whenever something meaningful is done—research, an implementation plan, or the implementation itself—that knowledge is written into the task's `docs/` folder using the naming convention
- In later iterations, the relevant Markdown in `docs/` and the contents of `data/` are available so the agent can narrow its focus and work more precisely.

Commit message:

Rename Project -> Domain to avoid confusion

website/docs/overview.md, after:

---
layout: docs
title: Overview
---

# Overview

Context Layer is a **context layer** used as **context for AI agents** during iterative development. It gives agents a structured place for documentation and reference material so they can focus and operate more precisely across iterations.

## What it does

- Manages a global store at `~/.agents/ctxlayer/domains/` where domains and tasks live
- Each task has `docs/` and `data/` for documentation and reference material
- A local `.ctxlayer/config.yaml` in your repo tracks the active domain and task
- An agent skill teaches AI coding assistants (Cursor, Claude Code, etc.) how to write documentation and manage context using these conventions

## Intention

- **Domain** — Context organization unit. A domain can span one or more Git repositories.
- **Task** — One task within that domain. Think of a task like a Git branch: create a new task whenever you start a feature, refactor, or research spike.
- Inside each task you get:
  - **`data/`** — All data the agent can use (reference material, repos, sample data)
  - **`docs/`** — Documentation. Whenever something meaningful is done—research, an implementation plan, or the implementation itself—that knowledge is written into the task's `docs/` folder using the naming convention
- In later iterations, the relevant Markdown in `docs/` and the contents of `data/` are available so the agent can narrow its focus and work more precisely.
